All of these programs I'm showing
you have so many flags and
so many different ways
you can use the tool.
And I am showing you the 1% of
the surfaces of these tools, right?
So I'm sure if I go in here to make,
let say help,
there's a bunch of different things
that I'm not showing you, right?
So I showed you the -p1 cuz that's what
I use a lot but I'm not showing you
verbose mode, I'm not showing you
all these different modes as well.
So keep in mind that all these
different tools have more
power than what I'm showing you.
So let's talk about touch.
So this is everything I have
in here in this directory.
I'm gonna say touch my-new-file.txt.
And what touch does is if the file
doesn't exist, it creates it.
So if I go in here and look now,
you could see I have a my-new-file.
And this was created at 13:42,
right there, right?
Now, If the file already exists,
it updates its last modified time.
So I don't know if it's been enough time,
it hasn't.
So, but if I waited another minute or two,
and I did touch again on the same file,
what it would do is,
it would change the modified time.
It doesn't do anything else to the file,
it just updates the modified time.
That can be useful sometimes, cuz you
have scripts that go in and say, hey,
if this file's been modified, it means
it's time to run the script again.
So you can kinda use that as like
a time check, you'll see that a lot.
So let's see if I can do that again and
say, you can see right there,
this is now 13:43, whereas up here,
it was 13:42, right?
So it changes that modified time.
Okay, so that's touch.
Now let's say we wanted to get rid of
my-new-file, how would we do that?
One of them is remove, so
rm my new text file, like that.
And now if you go in here and
look, it's not there anymore.
So that's what rm is, remove,
be extremely careful with
how you use rm because if you
use rm in the incorrect way,
you can delete your entire computer.
Or you can at least delete Linux
until it deletes something so
critical that it can't run anymore.
Let's say I wanted to remove my folder,
if I say remove my new folder,
it's gonna say it's a directory,
I don't remove directories.
So in order to remove a directory,
you have to say rm-r my new folder.
And that's how you remove it.
But if I say make directory lol,
and I touch a file in here,
And I say rm-r now of lol, it's gonna,
it didn't have a problem with that.
Interesting, okay.
So frequently it'll ask you,
it cuz they're empty files.
So anyway frequently you'll see f put on
here as well, which stands for force.
And it's basically saying, hey,
I'm about to move a bunch of files and
I don't want you to ask me about it,
right?
Otherwise it'll go through and it's like,
are you sure you want to delete this file?
Do you wanna delete this file?
And if you're trying to
remove a node modules,
which has like 10,000 files in it, you
don't wanna be asked that 10,000 times.
So that's why people
will put the f in there.
And the -r allows you to delete
directories which stands for
recursive delete.
So a lot of times you'll see people just
say rm-rf whatever they're trying to
delete.
I just want to again throw out,
this is a scary command to run because
unlike when you move things
to like the recycle bin,
if you make a mistake with then you can
just pull it out of the recycle bin.
When you rm something, it's gone.
It's legitimately gone,
you cannot recover from it.
Just be aware that you
are permanently deleting something.
There is a package which I'll show
you how to install packages later,
called trash and
a lot of people will switch to trash.
And that way, it works more similar to
how your operating system like MacOs or
Windows works, where there is a temporary
trash directory that is emptied
every 30 days, or something like that.
It's a good idea to install that when I
remember to try and do that but yeah,
just be aware you
are permanently deleting things.
And I'm just gonna throw
out there rm -rf star,
we'll talk about star here in a second.
This is gonna delete everything, right?
Or slash, right?
Just be aware of, I haven't done that but
there's plenty of funny stories out
there of engineers that have
accidentally run that and
it starts deleting their entire computer.
Linux is gonna do exactly
what you tell it to do.
If you tell it to delete everything, it's
gonna be like, okay, and it'll go try and
delete itself.
So just be aware of that.
Cool, So that's rm,
that's another useful command for
you to have in your toolbelt.
And again there's a lot more stuff
to rm than just what I've shown you,
there's the interactive one.
There's, yeah, there's a bunch of stuff.
Cool, let's talk about copy.
So I have txtfile.txt there.
If I want a copy, I can say cp txtfile,
so the source file to destination file.
And now you'll see I have two files,
txtfile.txt and destination file.txt,
that's what copy does, is it copies for
you, I use that one all the time.
And by the same thing if I say copy
What is it?
R, -R hi to bye, right?
Now, if I look inside of here, I have
a bye directory and inside of that bye
directory, Right, now I have a directory
called bye with my name is Brian side of
it cuz it copied everything inside of hi.
So that -R for
copy means recursive as well.
So normally -R or either lowercase or
uppercase R means recursive,
it means to not only this file but
every file inside of it.
That's not always true, but
it's kinda rule of thumb that
people kind of adhere to.
And let's talk about move.
So there's mv, which stands for
move and it that make sense
that it's called move but
for me, it's more rename.
That's cuz I think of things more in terms
of like I want to rename this from this
thing to this other thing,
and so you use mv for that.
So I'm gonna move,
let's say I'm gonna move bye to,
Something else.
And so now you'll notice that
I don't have bye anymore,
I've renamed the bye
directory to something else.
And this works just as well for
files as well.
So if I move destination
file to another file,
There you go.
So mv, that's another one to keep in mind.
And then let's get into tar.
So frequently, you wanna move
a bunch of files all at once,
whether that's like uploading
a file to the server or
really anything that you
would use a zip file for.
Linux has a file format called tar,
which is kind of similar to zip files.
Zip files are inherently compressed,
whereas a tar file is not
necessarily inherently compressed.
A tar file can just be a bunch
of files kind of glob together
that's meant to be extracted later.
And yeah,
Tar is one of those things
that I always have to look up
cuz I can never remember all
the flags that I need for it.
But let's just make a directory,
call it folder1.
I'm gonna go and type to folder1 and
I'm going to make a bunch of files.
So I'm gonna touch file1, file1.txt,
file2.txt, file3.txt, file4.txt.
That's the thing about touches,
you can use them many times at once.
Okay, so
now I have multiple files in here, And
let's say I have folder1 and
txt file that I wanted
to put into one file so
that I can move them, right?
I can move them from this computer to
this computer or something like that.
I can do tar -cf archive or
whatever you wanna call it .tar,
and I'm gonna add textfile.txt and
I am gonna add folder1 to it as well.
And now if you look in here,
I have this archive.tar and
it is 12 kilobytes and
that's because I put three 4
kilobyte files into it, so
it is one 12 kilobyte file.
So I did see an f and that puts
all the things into a single file.
However, it's not compressed, right?
So for the most part,
when you put things into an archive,
you want them to be compressed so
it's smaller.
The trade off being that you have
to process it so it's small, but
at this point, that's cheap.
You always wanna compress your files.
So if I do the same command, and I'm
gonna put a z at the end of this, so cfz,
and then at the end of the tar,
I'm gonna put .gz, that stands for gzip.
So sometimes, these flags are important
and what order you get them as well.
So in this particular case,
I had to get the z flag first.
But now, if I go look at,
I have archive.tar,
this one has not been compressed,
12 kilobytes, and then this one
archive.tar.gz has been compressed,
and you can see that it's 4 kilobytes.
So in other words, as you can see here,
I can never remember all the flags and
what order they're supposed to go in for
tar.
So I always have to look this up.
But now I have this tar file, and
I can extract it whenever I want.
So I'm gonna, oops, make a directory here,
extracted, and I'm gonna move my
archive.gz into extracted, okay?
So now, I'm gonna go into extracted and
I'm gonna say tar -xcf,
the archive file and some folder.
This part needs to be first.
What went on with this?
So I have my archive file,
-c into destination, Mkdir destination.
Okay, again, this is a tool that I
always have to fight with cuz there's so
many files and you have to get them
all right, so I had to do tar -xzf,
this is how you extract an archive, right?
And you have to tell which archive to
extract and then you have to do a -C to
let you know a destination and
the destination has to exist.
If it doesn't exist,
it will not create it for you.
But now if you look inside
the destination, you can see
that I have the folder there, the text
file and it's all there and ready to go.
So again, why tars are useful.
It's the same reason that you
would ever use a zip file, whether
that's to compress a bunch of files
down into one archive that you can move.
Or if you just need to zip something for
some reason, and
then you can use both the tar, Command
to also extract these archives as well.
So that's more or less what you need to do
to interact with various different files.
It's a lot of touching.
It's a lot of cat.
It's a lot of, I know, touching,
you can touch all the files.
There's a lot of,
I'm not even gonna go there.
But there's a lot of jokes that people
like to make about various different
command line tools and
how to use them together,
none of which I'm going to repeat.